So the spring test annotations and the
spring testing framework itself can be
used both for integration tests as well
as unit test. There is very subtle
difference here so if you want to do
unit test you will mock so if you are
mocking that means we are still using
spring injection through the
configuration that way we are making
sure that we have wired the beans and
everything properly at the same time we
are not going to call into the real
DAO's the real next layer we are still
mocking it so it is still a unit test we
could have got away without doing all
this spring stuff but here we are verifying
that everything we are
configuring or all the dependency
injection we are doing with spring is
still intact it's a great way of testing
the dependency injection as well but if
you don't mock here if you don't use
mockito and if you call into the real
services they will become integration
tests so if you want to write
integration tests and if you are using
spring in your application go ahead and
don't mock then it will start calling
into the next layer you have to make
sure all the dependencies are correct
and you are injecting everything
properly this is a great way to test
that as well. Summarize spring test
framework can be used along with j unit
and mockito to do unit testing or just
spring test framework can be used with j
unit just to do integration testing as
well.